your neighborhood Randallstown pom store
clean bright respectable look there's
Jimmy hi Jimmy let's see what we can do
as Randall's tom thumb supervisors to
make our stores even better and thus
boost our sales we can call it just one
more because that's what we want
customers to buy just one more item
wherever they are in the store of course
there are many ways to do this
let's look at a few and see which ones
make the best sense shall we
that's right cross merchandising sounds
technical I know but done properly it
can be a rewarding experience for both
the customer and Randall's Tom Thumb
what do you say we see how it's done
here's James James runs the produce
department at this particular store
let's see what kind of cross
merchandising he's developed hmm looks
like James has chosen to put a dog food
display near the banana bin the point
James of cross merchandising is to put
compatible or complimentary products
near each other this saves the customer
time and provides more profit potential
for Randall's Tom Thumb what do you say
we give James another try okay James
let's see what you've come up with this
time an assortment of dips placed
conveniently alongside the sliced
carrots and celery talk Powai James home
run you've got it now here are some
other simple examples you can try
throughout your Randall's Tom Thumb try
putting the jelly and jams alongside the
bread loaves nothing helps the baked
potato like tinfoil right put them
together for goodness sake just look at
those steaks all neatly in a row kinda
makes you hungry huh well you'd be even
hungrier with some marinades and sauces
to go with them there you go Jimmy
that's the idea
another successful form of cross
merchandising is the endcap promotion
you know those big display areas at the
end of your aisles what are you using
them for no that's not the optimum way
to use this space
these are wonderful places to create a
promotion sure it's easy at this
location for instance Kelly the store
director has decided it's party time in
her fair town she's included napkins
plastic utensils paper plates charcoal
even lighter fluid how can you go wrong
with such service other displays might
include all the fixin's for a three bean
casserole or maybe a laundry display
with detergent stain removers and fabric
softeners there's plenty of room to be
creative and offer your customers are
rewarding deal who wouldn't love to
sample our huge variety of foods most
people have never even tried the vast
majority of delicacies we offer what you
need to do is get the word out what
better way than to simply provide
samples throughout the store of our mini
gourmet treats look here it's one milena
ones bakery department prepares hot
fresh breads every day and places
samples around Topeka shoppers interest
oh here comes a curious shopper now now
nobody expects this kind of reaction
every time but if you sell just one more
low Randle's Tom Thumb is a winner this
technique works equally well in other
departments juicy fruit slices and
produce complimentary cheeses with meat
purchases in the deli
maybe cake samples over by the bakery
they're always a crowd-pleaser bud
j-hook these nifty gadgets are essential
in promoting our just one more campaign
when used properly they can create an
excellent merchandising point anywhere
in the store however when used
incorrectly they can become an unsightly
blight on an otherwise clean and well or
shopping I'll look for yourself at these
misuse j-hook devices now see how
inventive a properly used J hook can be
in the unlikely event of an atomic
attack gather yourself and your fellow
associates under an appropriate counter
or display and cover your head now what
did we discuss today everybody cross
merchandising put complementary items
near each other and cap promotions don't
waste those Islands demonstrate give
them samples they'll want more J hooks
the small space wonder promotions atomic
war duck and cover if you make sure to
do all these things in your store you
can be certain customers will always
leave Randall's Tom Thumb with just one
more item heck maybe even more